Louisiana, by nearly all logic and
reason, should be among the wealthiest
and most prosperous states in America.
It truly just has so many built-in
advantages going for it that it would be
hard for an outsider who's never heard
of Louisiana before to imagine any other
outcome. In southern Louisiana is the
delta of the Mississippi River, which
drains out the largest river system of
the North American continent that spans
roughly 41% of the total territory of
the United States. Throughout this vast
interconnected river system exists the
largest continuous network of inland
navigable waterways that can be found
anywhere on the planet enabling river
barge trade from as deep in the interior
as Minneapolis, Omaha, Kansas City,
Nashville, Louisville, Cincinnati, and
Pittsburgh. All access to the global
ocean through the Delta in southern
Louisiana. Historically, whoever
controlled the delta of this river
system in Louisiana controlled the
access to and from this entire built-in
system of inland continental river
trade, which is why New Orleans, built
about as close to the mouth of the river
as was physically possible, became such
a large and influential city since it
could facilitate all of this trade
between the interior and the outside
world. Offering up warehouses and
storage solutions for riverborn cargo to
transfer onto oceanbound cargo and vice
versa. New Orleans was once the third
largest city in the entire country back
in 1840, and it was the largest city in
the American South for the entire
nation's history until the 1950s when it
was surpassed by Houston.
All on its own, Louisiana frequently
ranks as one of the top producers in the
country of multiple agricultural
products. Basically, the entire state is
located on top of a massive salt
deposit, which is why Louisiana almost
always ranks as the number one or two
salt producer in the country. The state
is usually the third largest producer of
rice and the second largest producer of
sugar cane in the US as well. And even
more importantly, Louisiana is one of
the epicenters of the American oil and
gas industry due to the state's location
nearby to the huge offshore fields in
the Gulf of Mexico and the massive oil
fields in Texas. Along with its ability
to handle shipments throughout the
interior with the Mississippi River
Delta, Louisiana possesses the second
largest oil refinery capacity of any
state. Capable of refining roughly 3.3
million barrels a day. Nearly 1 in every
five barrels of oil that gets refined in
the US takes place in Louisiana. And
when including the nearby offshore oil
fields in the Gulf, Louisiana is one of
the top 10 producers of crude oil in the
US as well. On top of that, Louisiana is
one of the top three largest producers
of natural gas in the country as well,
producing roughly 10% of all the natural
gas in America. Even more importantly,
Louisiana completely dominates the
country's liqufying natural gas or LG
export capacity, too. Roughly 2thirds of
all American LG exports to the outside
world currently takes place through
Louisiana primarily from massive LG
export terminals in the state like
Sabine Pass, Calcasu Pass, Cameron LG,
and Plaamine LG. This isn't only because
of Louisiana's proximity to the Gulf of
Mexico and huge hail fields and its vast
refining infrastructure, but also
because Louisiana is the epicenter of
the American pipeline network as well.
To give you just a sense of how central
Louisiana is to this system, consider
this small town in the state that you
probably never even heard of before now
called
is home to the Henry Hub, a critical
junction point where 11 different
interstate pipelines from all across the
country converge at. It is where the
price of natural gas for the entire
North American market primarily get sent
at. And it's also the starting point for
most global LG pricing formulas as well.
All of these pipelines enable natural
gas to be carried into Louisiana from
across the country and then liquefied
for export on ships to go across the
world. A critical component of American
geopolitical power in the 21st century
that since 2024 has helped to enable the
United States to become the largest
exporter of LG in the world. Aided by
all of these advantages, Louisiana is
also among the largest producers of
chemical products in the country as
well. The state is generally regarded as
the second largest producer of chemicals
in the country, primarily concentrated
along an 85m long industrial corridor of
the Mississippi River between New
Orleans and Baton Rouge. Home to more
than 150 petrochemical plants that
accounts for nearly 25% of all
prochemical production in America. This
stretch of the Mississippi River is home
to the largest concentration of
refineries and prochemical plants
anywhere in the Western Hemisphere. So
much so that his more generous nickname
is the Silicon Valley of prochemicals,
producing roughly $80 billion in output
annually. Huge investments from abroad
in a Louisiana's massive prochemical and
oil and gas industries have also made
Louisiana among the top three largest
per capita recipients of foreign direct
investment in the US since 2008 as well.
And we still haven't even talked about
Louisiana's ports either. Because of all
these geographic advantages and critical
industries, Louisiana has by far the
largest total port tonnage out of all of
America's states today. Out of the top
15 busiest ports in America by port
tonnage, Louisiana is home to five of
them, including the second and sixth
busiest ports at the Port of South
Louisiana and the Port of New Orleans.
Compared to every other state, Louisiana
has more port tonnage than Texas and
more than double the port tonnage of
California, who sits in third place,
which makes Louisiana the biggest port
tonnage hub in the entire country. And
yet, despite all of these advantages and
leads in numerous critical industries,
and despite boasting a seemingly high
GDP per capita of $74,000,
that's even higher than Sweden,
Louisiana is in reality one of the most
deeply impoverished states in the union
with arguably the lowest quality of life
in the country that even rivals still
developing countries. Going through just
a few of Louisiana's quality of life
rankings, the state currently, as of
2026, places 45th in the nation in
infant mortality rates, 49th in the
nation in maternal mortality rates, 46th
in overall violent crime rates,
including 47th in property crime, and
50th in homicide rates, 47th in overall
life expectancy, 48th in food
insecurity, with nearly 18% of
households classified as food insecure,
48th in median household income, and
then last 50th place in multiple other
categories including poverty rates with
nearly 1 in5 Louisianans living beneath
the poverty line which is double the
national average 50th place in
incarceration rates per capita with more
than 1% of the state's total population
currently in prison 50th place in
national reading scores and 50th place
in gender pay gap with men in the state
earning nearly 37% more than women do on
average US News, which ranks all 50
states for the best ones to live in
every year based on 47 different
measured metrics, consistently ranks
Louisiana dead last in 50th place as the
worst state in the country to live in
year after year, behind even neighboring
Mississippi, who generally has the worst
reputation. Louisiana's population is
currently crashing as thousands more
people leave than enter every year.
While a newly published paper in the
journal Nature suggests that due to
multiple factors, the shoreline will
likely migrate as much as 62 mi inland
within only a few decades by 2070, which
could end up stranding both New Orleans
and Baton Rouge as dangerously exposed
islands in the Gulf, which will also
wreck the entire state's prochemical and
refinery industries that are located in
between them and force hundreds of
thousands of the region's residents to
migrate elsewhere. where and in order to
understand how Louisiana can
simultaneously be home to such wealth in
terms of resources and geographic
advantages and such poverty in terms of
quality of life rankings and why
significant amounts of the state might
vanish completely within our own
lifetimes. It helps first to understand
how Louisiana's political situation
differs dramatically from any other
state in the country because a large
amount of Louisiana's ailments all stem
out from this. The basic thing that you
need to understand is that Louisiana is
still being administered effectively as
a colonial resource extraction economy
that's only been adapted for the modern
age. The whole state is basically run by
and for a variety of industrial
supercorporations.
much more so than any other state in the
country is. There's an organization
called Good Jobs First that maintains a
subsidy tracker database online which
tracks the amount of publicly disclosed
corporate subsidies within each state
given to companies since around the
1990s. Based on their provided data, I
adapted it to display the amount of
corporate subsidies given out by state
on a per capita basis shown here. If
you'll notice at the very top of the
list the huge anomaly that is the state
of Louisiana on a per capita basis.
Louisiana hands out dramatically more
corporate subsidies than any other state
in the country does to the point where
it's truly in a league of its own.
Louisiana hands out nearly twice the
amount of corporate subsidies per capita
as the states in second and third place
do New Jersey and New York. And it hands
out nearly nine times the amount as the
US nationwide average. And 80% of all
these corporate subsidies that the state
of Louisiana has handed out over the
years have come through a single unique
and obscure program in the state that's
known as the Industrial Tax Exemption
Program or the IT, the largest corporate
subsidy program in America. Started all
the way back in 1936,
the IT granted a state level board
called the Louisiana Board of Commerce
and Industry the extraordinary authority
to approve corporate exemptions from
local property taxes without any
approval, say, or even knowledge from
the local authorities who would be
impacted the most negatively by those
exemptions like municipalities, parish
governments, sheriffs, and school
boards. This broad authority granted to
the state level board to approve local
property tax exemptions for corporations
statewide without any input or say from
local authorities was unique in America.
And it's a system that lasted completely
unchanged and little noticed in
Louisiana for decades until very
recently in 2016. Between 1998 and 2016
alone, when the IT was finally reformed,
16,923
applications for corporate property tax
exemptions were submitted under the
program, and only eight of them were
ever rejected by the board, giving the
whole process a ludicrous approval
rating of 99.95%.
Practically any company that applied for
any property tax exemptions under the
program was granted an automatic
approval for decades. And these
exemptions could cover up to 100% of a
corporation's applied for property for
up to 10 years. According to a 2016
analysis that was conducted by the
Institute for Energy Economics and
Financial Analysis, a nonprofit based in
Ohio, about 63% of all industrial
property statewide across Louisiana,
valued at about $45 billion was
completely exempted from property
taxation because of the IT program,
including significant percentages of the
property values of massive and extremely
expensive industrial plants owned by
companies like on mobile, Shell, Dupant,
and others. Because of the IT, it was
estimated in 2016 that Louisiana's local
authorities like school districts,
sheriffs, and municipalities were losing
out on around $720 million per year of
corporate property tax income that they
otherwise would have been receiving
without the IT. That was hundreds of
millions of dollars every single year
being kept by the industrial
corporations in Louisiana and hundreds
of millions of fewer dollars every
single year to help fund Louisiana's
public services and needs like schools,
police, fire, hospitals, libraries, and
infrastructure. And it's a policy that
continued unabated with no say by any
local residents or authorities for 80
years in the state between 1936 and
2016. Since 1998 alone, it's been
estimated that the IT has ultimately
cost the state of Louisiana roughly $20
billion and missed out local property
taxes, which as you can imagine has left
the state schools, infrastructure,
police, and other public services
critically underfunded relative to other
states. And of course, there has never
been any comparable policy to exempt
Louisiana residents from their own
residential property taxes. And in order
to help offset some of the difference,
Louisiana employs a crushing sales tax
rate that averages 10.11%
statewide. The top number one highest
sales tax burden in the entire country
that is borne more by the lower and
middle classes in the state since
purchases of taxable goods represent a
higher share of their total income than
the upper classes.
In 2016, the IT was theoretically
reformed in Louisiana to finally give
local authorities the ability to approve
these industrial property tax exemptions
and on their own terms, giving local
residents some theoretical ability to
determine what goes on in their own
communities for really the first time in
modern Louisiana history. However, many
of the giant industrial corporations in
the state immediately initiated a
heavily funded lobbying campaign that
has continued since then, which has
pushed for convincing local school
districts, municipalities, and other
local governing bodies to grant them
automatic approvals to IT applications
anyway, which has proven to be quite
successful for them. Many of the
parishes in Louisiana have since then
simply agreed to automatically approve
all future IT applications site on sea.
A review of 336 post 2016 applications
to the IT in Louisiana revealed only 15
cancellations and four withdrawals,
showing that even after the reform, the
IT has still been able to maintain a 94%
approval rating for every piece of
corporate property that gets submitted.
Meaning the local entities across the
state are still being deprived of
massive amounts of revenue they need to
offer basic amenities and services to
their own residents. And remember when I
said earlier that the more generous
nickname of that 85m stretch of
prochemical plants and refineries
between Baton Rouge and New Orleans was
the Silicon Valley of prochemicals.
Well, the much more common and less
flattering nickname for this region than
many more people know it by is Cancer
Alley. Due to the hugely elevated
environmental risks posed to the
region's local residents because of all
of the polluting emissions emitted by
the hundreds of petrochemical plants and
oil refineries that are located all
around them. The risk of contracting
cancer from industrial air pollution has
been estimated to be more than seven
times the national average in Cancer
Alley, which is the highest risk
anywhere in North America. Residents of
Cancer Alley can expect low birth weight
rates more than triple the nationwide
average, pre-term births nearly 2 and
1/2 times the national average, and
severe respiratory ailments in addition
to the dramatically higher risks of
developing cancer. And all of this is
born on a local population in the region
that is also largely black, which has
led to accusations of the state
committing environmental racism. 23 of
all of Louisiana's annual greenhouse gas
emissions come from cancer alley. And
the situation is so bad that
representatives of the UN have
unironically referred to the area as a
sacrifice zone and as a violation of
human rights.
The development of all of this
prochemical and oil refinery industry
between Baton Rouge and New Orleans took
place shortly after the end of the
Second World War and were most often
placed on former plantation sites
directly adjacent to communities with
significant or majority black
populations. One particularly egregious
case happened in 1969 when the Dupont
Chemical Company built a chloropine
rubber manufacturing plant in the town
of Reserve St. John the Baptist Parish,
Louisiana. In 2015, the plant was sold
to a Japanese chemicals company called
Dena. The area immediately adjacent to
the Dupont Dena plant has been
recognized by the EPA is having a
likelihood of its residents contracting
cancer from air pollution more than 700
times the national average. And it is
notably located directly next to an
elementary school in multiple
residential neighborhoods. Production at
the plant only halted in May of 2025,
just a year ago, but not because of any
federal lawsuits, which were all dropped
against the plant a few months
previously, by the Trump administration.
For decades, the EPA, the Louisiana
state government, and particularly the
Louisiana Department of Environmental
Quality have all repeatedly failed to
address the harms caused by the
industrial development of Cancer Alley
by refusing to enforce even the most
minimum of environmental standards set
by the federal government within the
state. And a lot of this from the IT
policies effectively plundering
Louisiana's tax base to the
environmental catastrophe that came out
of the development of cancer rally stems
from the fact that Louisiana's politics
are just really really corrupt. To give
you just a sense of the scale of the
corruption problem in the state,
consider a report that the KO Institute
released last year in 2025 which
measured convictions for public
corruption by state on a per capita
basis between 2004 and 2023. That report
concluded that Louisiana is the top most
corrupt state in the nation with a rate
of per capita public corruption
convictions that is about double or
worse than every other state in the
country other than Montana, South
Dakota, and Kentucky, which are
Louisiana's closest corruption
competitors. In Louisiana though, the
public corruption is historically
extended throughout the entire system
from sheriffs to mayors to congressmen
to governors. And there are some very
notable and colorful examples from
history. Richard Leche, a former
governor of Louisiana between 1936 and
1939, who was the first one to introduce
the IT in the state, resigned in
disgrace over corruption allegations,
and he was eventually convicted of mail
fraud in 1940 that involved a scheme
with a dealer selling trucks to the
state's highway department at
exorbitantly inflated prices and then
giving Leche personal kickbacks. His
successor to the governorship, Earl
Long, was charged with embezzlement
himself, but never convicted. And in
more modern times, there's the case of
Edwin Edwards, who served as the state's
governor on and off four times between
1972 and 1996. His entire time in office
was dominated by an almost endless
stream of criminal investigations. But
he was finally convicted on felony
raketeering, moneyaundering, extortion,
and wire fraud charges in 2001 and
served an 8-year stint in prison. While
serving his final term as Louisiana's
governor in the 1990s, Edwards and his
associates came up with a scheme to
transform the state's riverboat casino
licensing system into essentially a
bribery machine. Applicants to the
program were pressured by Edwards into
paying him personal bribes for his
approval, which were conveniently
relabeled as consulting fees. In one
particular case, the then owner of the
San Francisco 49ers, Edward J. Dearalo
Jr., paid Edwards a $400,000
bribe in exchange for being granted a
riverboat casino license, something
which he later pleaded guilty to doing
in court. And perhaps most infamously in
recent Louisiana corruption history was
William Jefferson, who maintained an
18-yearlong career representing his
district in Louisiana in the US House of
Representatives until the FBI initiated
an undercover investigation into him in
2005 under allegations that he was
accepting bribes by businesses in order
to advance their interests. During this
investigation, Williams accepted a
$100,000 cash bribe from an undercover
FBI informant. And then during a
subsequent raid of his house, 90,000 of
those exact same dollars were discovered
stashed away in his freezer, hidden in a
box of pie crusts. Reign again, a former
mayor of New Orleans for years between
2002 and 2010, was convicted on more
than 20 counts of bribery and fraud
after he left office, including a scheme
that netted him a free source of granite
that supplied the countertop business he
ran on the side. And as recently as
2025, another former mayor of New
Orleans, Latoya Contrell, who served
between 2018 and 2026, was also indicted
on corruption charges relating to her
alleged usage of public funds to
facilitate a romantic relationship with
one of her own bodyguards.
The history of corruption within the
state is extremely deeprooted and
pervasive, and it's a very difficult
problem for anyone honest to actually
solve. The sheer scale of this
corruption in Louisiana has long been
one of the biggest roadblocks holding
the state back from achieving its
potential and a very long history of
policy mistakes and errors made by this
leadership over the generations have
also helped contribute to the state
becoming arguably the most dangerously
exposed place anywhere in the world
today to the modern threat of climate
change which is now the biggest
existential threat to Louisiana's future
existence. You see, the Mississippi
River itself isn't a static fixture of
geography. It's actually a living,
moving thing. And over the eons of
history, it has been constantly shaped
and molded by natural forces like
erosion, floods, earthquakes, tectonic
movements, and more recently, even
man-made alterations. It has naturally
meandered around its current route for
millions of years. And there is ample
geological evidence to suggest that it
switches to a newer, shorter route out
to the Gulf of Mexico roughly once every
1,000 or so years. And the last time
that the Mississippi shifted course to
its current route was around 1,000 AD,
which as you can immediately tell was
roughly 1,000 years ago. Since the river
drains a massive area, equivalent to
about 41% of the entire US, the river
usually brings a colossal amount of
sediment from across the interior of the
continent to the wetlands of southern
Louisiana, which gets deposited through
floods and helps to build up and nourish
the muddy, marshy wetlands that southern
Louisiana is well known for. The muddy
land just barely above sea level that
the sediment helps form naturally
subsides and sinks beneath the sea over
time. But historically, there was a
natural balance in place in southern
Louisiana where the amount of new
sediment getting deposited through the
Mississippi River, building new land
along with the rate of new plant growth
that was anchoring and protecting that
new land from erosion was higher than
the rate of natural subsidance, which
resulted in thousands of years of
continuous land growth in the region.
However, this natural balance in
southern Louisiana began being severely
and irreversibly altered by humans
around a century ago in the early 20th
century. In order to protect the growing
community's economic and industrial
infrastructure that was going up all
along the lower Mississippi's banks, a
series of enormous levies utilizing
industrial technology were constructed
along the river beginning in 1928, which
effectively straight jacketed the
Mississippi and prevented it from
flooding out as much as it otherwise
would have. The problem with doing this
is that it directly eliminated the
ability of the river to continue
replenishing the coastal wetlands around
the delta with the sediment it needed to
continue growing or to even remain
stable. Rather than being deposited
across the wetlands through floods, the
levies forced almost all of the river
sediment out of its mouth and directly
into the Gulf of Mexico, effectively
wasting it in the process.
And then there was the manner of the
Mississippi River itself wanting to
shift its course again after the 1,000
years running the same course started
expiring in the late 20th century. By
the 1950s, it became obvious to civil
engineers that the Mississippi was
naturally wanting to shift its course
just north of Bannon Rouge towards the
Achafallaya River instead, which by that
point was a shorter, steeper, and more
efficient route for the river to take
into the Gulf. Without human
intervention, the Mississippi was
projected in the 1950s to fully shift
over to the Achafallayia by the 1990s.
However, were that to ever happen, it
would eliminate the usefulness of both
New Orleans and Baton Rouge as ports
with no possible replacements in the new
channel. Since the new Delta would be in
a much shallower location, it would be
disastrous for the prochemical and
refinery industries dotted along the
river between Baton Rouge and New
Orleans. It would completely wipe out
Morgan City, home to more than 10,000
people, which is basically already
surrounded by water. It would eliminate
the freshwater supply to the entire New
Orleans metro area. And it would sever
all of the critical oil and gas
pipelines in Louisiana that run to the
east coast. In other words, it would be
absolutely catastrophic for just about
everyone involved. So the US Army Corps
of Engineers built the old river control
structure in the early 1960s to force
the Mississippi to continue flowing down
its historic course past Baton Rouge in
New Orleans. The consequence, however,
was that the old river control structure
blocked even more sediment from upstream
reaching the Mississippi Delta further
downstream, while it also created a
single point of critical infrastructure
failure within the state. likely the
most vulnerable single place in America
to a super villain or a terrorist
attack. Were the old river control
structure ever destroyed, it would
immediately result in the destruction of
all of the communities in Louisiana
between Baton Rouge and New Orleans and
the state's entire prochemical and
refinery industries.
Then even more sediment became trapped
behind the dams and locks that were
built along the Mississippi, Missouri,
and Ohio rivers even further upstream.
And as a result, since 1850, the amount
of sediment even reaching the lower
Mississippi at all has been reduced by
about 70%. And most of that remaining
amount is wasted by being dumped into
the Gulf of Mexico because of the
levies. Without any of the sediments
contributing to the growth of the land
since the late 1920s and the natural
balance broken, the rate of erosion and
subsidance has taken over instead, and
huge areas of coastal Louisiana have
been simply sinking for nearly a century
now. Then, to make matters even worse,
multiple other man-made factors have
only exacerbated the pace of coastline
loss in southern Louisiana as well.
Thousands of miles worth of canals were
dug across southern Louisiana by the oil
and gas companies to further accommodate
their energy infrastructure and
extraction and to aid with navigation,
which had the unintended consequence of
allowing salt water from the ocean to
penetrate ever deeper into the
freshwater ecosystems of the wetlands
and hastening their destruction. Then
the BP Deep Water Horizon oil rig
explosion in 2010 took place just
offshore of coastal Louisiana and
resulted in the largest oil spill ever
in world history, devastating hundreds
of miles of the fragile coastal
environment of southern Louisiana even
further. And then there was the
ill-thoughtout plan in the 1930s when
fur traders in Louisiana were allowed to
introduce the Nutria for trapping, a
semi-aquatic rodent that sort of looks
like a beaver that's originally from
South America. A hurricane that struck
Louisiana in 1940 caused many of these
nutria to escape from their enclosures
along with several other trappers who
simply released them into the wild,
which then were able to quickly
proliferate into a feral population of
millions who adapted extremely well to
the marshy environment. The problem with
the nutria is that they don't just eat
plants above the ground. They also rip
out entire root systems in the process,
which in the coastal wetlands of
southern Louisiana destroys the local
vegetation's ability to anchor the soil
and prevent erosion, which only further
exacerbates all of the other problems.
The nutria problem got so bad that by
2002, the Louisiana state government
introduced a bounty system on them that
has remained in place ever since.
Hunters and trappers can earn $6 per
nutria they kill under this bounty
system during the hunting season. And
some of the best of them can earn as
much as 60 to $120,000
a season doing it. So basically, you
have this dual problem in coastal
Louisiana right now where the low
elevation muddy wetlands are sinking
because of multiple man-made problems at
the same time as sea levels are also
rising because of anthropogenic climate
change. which is the unique combination
that makes coastal Louisiana arguably
the single most dangerously exposed
coastal community in the world right
now. And that's not even to mention that
coastal Louisiana is also one of the
most hurricane exposed regions in the
world as well. Powerful storm surges
from Hurricane Katrina and Rita in 2005
destroyed hundreds of square miles of
coastal wetlands in Louisiana in mere
days. And the further that the coastal
wetlands are destroyed, the less of a
barrier they can constitute against
further hurricanes and storm surges in
the future, and the more destructive
they'll ultimately become. Particularly
destructive hurricanes like Katrina have
already resulted in devastating
population loss in Louisiana that the
state has still never recovered from.
After Katrina struck Orleans's parish,
the parish lost about 1/4th of its
residents in the immediate aftermath,
and its population is still about 20%
lower today in 2026 than it was in 2005
before the hurricane. And then after
Rita struck the more rural Cameron
Parish just the next month, it lost
approximately half of its population and
is still never recovered to this day
either. It's also notable to point out
that while every single county that
borders the Gulf in Florida, Alabama,
and Mississippi have all seen population
growth since the year 2000, almost all
of the coastal counties in Louisiana
have seen population declines and often
very sharp population declines. Since
2024, Louisiana has been leading the
nation in population loss, and it is
notably the only state in the geographic
American South that is currently
actively losing population. Louisianans
face rapidly rising home insurance costs
as the pace of natural disasters in
their state is increasing to the point
where today the home insurance rates in
the state are already the second highest
in the nation. On top of the highest
sales tax in the nation, on top of the
lowest quality of life in the country,
the worst and most dangerous air
pollution in the country, the highest
rate of corruption in the country, the
highest incarceration rate in the
country, low education and employment
opportunities, and a deeply uncertain
future with climate change to top it all
off. All while the state continues
favoring the mega corporations that are
present with a continuation of its
generous IT program that grants them
almost no property taxes. It's almost
kind of a wonder that Louisiana's
population hasn't shrunk more than it
already has, which I would explain by
the fact that New Orleans and many other
cities and regions across the state have
the strongest, most beautiful, and the
most unique culture and sense of place
in the entire country, which is a hill I
will die on. I can't hide the fact that
I personally and very deeply love New
Orleans. And anyone who's ever spent any
amount of time in this city knows how
much it can charm you and take a hold of
your heart in a way that no other city
in the country can. It is a harder place
to leave than mostly anywhere else. And
its strong culture and history simply
can't be replicated again anywhere else.
Nonetheless, the city is facing a
precipitous future along with the rest
of coastal Louisiana. Because of all of
the myriad of factors going on in
Louisiana that I've explained, more than
5,000 square kilm of wetlands have
already been lost beneath the sea just
since the 1930s. An area roughly twice
the size of Luxembourg. The rate of land
loss in coastal Louisiana is still so
rapid and ongoing that roughly an entire
football pitch-sized area is getting
wiped out every 100 minutes on average.
And unfortunately, that appears to be
only the beginning. A new paper
published in the scientific journal
Nature in May of 2026 suggests that
because of the rapidly sinking land and
the rising sea levels, southern
Louisiana faces a more severe loss of
coastline than anywhere else in the
world does that could become as bad as 3
to 7 m of relative sea level rise within
only a few decades by 2070, which could
result in up to 34s of all the state's
remaining wetlands getting lost under
the 3meter relative sea level rise
scenario. The paper estimates that the
coastal defenses of New Orleans will
likely remain successful, but that the
city will become transformed into
essentially a dangerously exposed
bull-shaped island lower than sea level
surrounded by the Gulf. And under the
more catastrophic 7 m relative sea level
rise scenario, the paper calculates that
no amount of defenses or money in the
world will be capable of saving the
city. and that New Orleans will be
buried beneath the sea. The paper argues
that either the three or seven meter
scenario is virtually inevitable at this
point, no matter what ends up happening,
and that New Orleans long-term condition
is terminal. New Orleans therefore might
have to end up becoming the first major
city in American history to actually
have to be abandoned by the end of this
century. Despite all of the massive
engineering efforts that have already
been put into saving it that have cost
tens of billions of dollars,
roughly 1.2 2 million people currently
live across the areas in coastal
Louisiana that'll likely be underwater
within a few decades, which is roughly a
full quarter of the state's entire
current population that will probably
have to be relocated at some point in
the next few generations.
In 2023, the state of Louisiana broke
ground on the Mid Baritaria Sediment
Diversion Project, a plan that aimed to
restore a more natural flow to the
Mississippi River Delta that would have
allowed the missing sediment to build up
in the coastal areas again where it had
been lost, which would have restored
some of the natural balance to the
wetlands and at least given them some
capability to replenish themselves and
stay afloat. Over 50 years, the project
believed that it would be capable of
restoring more than 20 square miles of
land in the wetlands while preventing
further losses at a cost of
approximately $3 billion.
But then just 2 years into the project
in 2025, Louisiana's government decided
to scrap the whole project entirely
under the argument that the $3 billion
price tag was too expensive and that it
supposedly also threatened the state's
fishing industry. And at the same time,
a recent US Supreme Court case this
month in May of 2026 is also allowing
Chevron to contest a Louisiana state
jury decision that had forced them to
pay $740 million to help fix the harm
they caused to the state's wetlands by
dredging those canals and drilling those
wells. which means that even the legal
effort to force the oil and gas
companies in the state to help pay for
the coastline collapse solution is also
very much in doubt. Now, the cumulative
consequences of all of these decisions
in the state over generations is that
Louisiana is effectively not even trying
to buy any more time for itself any
longer and for all practical purposes
has decided to abandon coastal Louisiana
New Orleans to its eventual fate within
a couple generations from now. New
Orleans isn't at any serious risk of
going underwater in the next decade or
two, but the bill is eventually coming
due, and it'll be paid by the future
generations who had no part in the
decision-making process going on in the
state today that so consistently and
blatantly favors short-term profits over
everything else at all costs, including
even sacrificing the hope of any kind of
a future at all. I truly grieve for
Louisiana's future and I hope against
all of the odds that somehow the people
and leadership of the state will fully
grasp their current trajectory and avoid
the leap into the abyss. It will require
enormous top-down structural reforms in
the state in a complete change of how
Louisiana has operated for generations
now. But there is no other alternative.
And when faced with desperate odds
before, humanity has always had a knack
for getting creative.
Difficult decisions and trade-offs,
though, shouldn't be defining your
shaving routine. For far too long in my
own life, I had to weigh the decision
between growing out some stubble or
inevitably irritating my skin with any
and every razor that just seemed to
scrape my face and always make the
routine an unpleasant one. But all of
that changed when I gave Hensen Shaving,
the sponsor of this video, a try. For
years, I've used razors that could give
me a fine enough, close, clean looking
shave. But it wasn't until I gave Hensen
a shot that they actually felt good. And
that's because Henen has been designing
around the feel and experience of the
shave as well as the look. And they've
come up with the Henen razor. If you
haven't heard the story of Henen shaving
before, they started as an aerospace
manufacturing company. They make
precision parts for satellites and space
probes. since some of what they made is
even on Mars right now. And along the
way, they realized that they could apply
this precision to razors. Not just to
make a better shave, but a less
expensive and a more sustainable one,
too. You see, the cartridge razors
you're probably used to might have
multiple blades, but they're not
supported all the way across, leading to
skipping and jumping across the skin,
which is what they call chatter. But
Hensen razors support the blade all the
way across to a depth of only 27
microns, a fraction the width of a human
hair, which ultimately leads to less
chatter and a smoother shave. And these
safety razors that you use on it are
also way less expensive. They're only 10
cents each compared to $2 for cartridge
razors. And they're also 100%
recyclable. The razor itself might be a
bit pricier than the handles you're used
to, but the only reason the other razor
companies sell them so cheap is because
they force you to pay more later in the
long run for all of those cartridges.
Hensen is different because you just pay
one time upfront for a nice razor and
then the cost goes down over time. It's
a razor that'll truly last you the rest
of your life. They come in a variety of
different fun colors. And if you'd like
to give their product a shot next and
support a company that's supporting me,
head to the link that's down below in
the description or click the button
that's here on your screen right now and
enter the code real life lore at
checkout to get 100 blades completely
free with your purchase. It's a switch
that I really think you're going to
appreciate making. And as always, thank
you so much for watching.